Thank you. [applause]
Um, of course, always great pleasure uh
to be here and it's a perfect spot.
Prague of course that's where Liberal
also started uh for conferences like
this. Let me just fix one more thing one
more thing here actually which is not
just my pronunciation my my surname
which is Lichka but but also the fact
actually we're not micronation. This is
I would say very important small element
that needs to be clarified. Um the
definition of micronation is actually it
is not being taken seriously by the
neighbors or by by the country in which
it was built. And I can tell you we're
being taken very seriously by our
neighbors. Uh that's why we have been
reclassified from organized group into a
par state by Croatia itself in the legal
paperwork two years ago already which is
a nice honor for us as well. They see us
in a similar way
I would say at this stage which is not
probably the most favorable way. Uh but
we're definitely not a micronation and
we are trying to convince them with all
our powers that we are actually very
beneficial project for the whole region
and especially for Croatia. So they
don't see us as a threat. They really
see us as an opportunity. That has been
the challenge from the beginning. I
think you have seen how many challenges
projects like Seastats are facing and
you can imagine that the situation of
Liberland is also uh not easy from from
especially from our neighbor Croatia.
But what we have managed to do over the
last couple of years is to stabilize the
situation. Liberlanders are actually
living nicely in Liberland for last
two years. And uh let me give you a
short video of some of our achievements
with our anthem and with some of the
great guys that are supporting Liberland
such as Ron Paul. Uh it's great to have
him behind our back or even Javier Mille
that has been actually running his
campaign for presidency as a general
coming from Liberland to save Argentina.
[music] And of course we have some other
great guys like Vitalik Bhuterin.
Vitalik made a personal commitment that
once there will be 100 people living in
Liberland, he's going to join a
personally the effort uh to build a
prosperous society. [music] And we have
this goal to have 100 people living
there from let's say 7 8 12 right now
that we have to uh 200 over the next
spring. So I believe we'll be able to
import much more people. Uh this is our
venue called the Ark. That's where most
of the events are happening. It's right
next to Liberland. uh and that's where
we are basing our settlement from and
I'm actually going to arc right away
from this conference because we have a
conference that I will invite you to if
we can skip the video it doesn't go in
the loop thank you so
it's more than 25 years uh ago where
that uh basically there was complete
resign of any title from from Serbia to
the territory of Liberal that gave us a
very clear status when it comes comes to
no man's land. So Croatia has never ever
officially accepted territory of
Liberland in any shape or form while
Serbia has actually given up the
territory and deleted everything from
their catastro maps and that what gave
us the opportunity to start the country
on on 13th of April 2015 was actually
the birthday of Thomas Jefferson. We
really wanted to invoke the spirit of
American revolution and uh if there is
somebody else by the way is there
somebody else to planning to start a
fullfledged country uh is okay one two
three okay four five six okay there is
okay not just zones but also full
countries that's what I appreciate uh
there are a couple things that you
really need to fulfill in order to be
considered by country and you don't
necessarily need to be recognized by
other countries that's very important
element of international law that
countries like Somali land are de facto
countries or states because the Monteo
criteria basically says that the rec the
existence of state is independent from
the recognition by other states but what
it needs to follow is to have permanent
population defined territory government
and capacity to enter into relations
with other countries. So we have a
permanent population. It's the it was
the most challenging part of getting
things done. Last two years people
permanently live there. Despite two
major flood waves, despite I think now
12 rounds of raids in Liberland, uh
people still live there and we are
prospering, I would say more and more.
We're actually building there again
right as we speak. We have defined
territory. We have given Croatia and
Serbia extra half meter in like so there
is like a no man's land between Croatia
and Liberland. Uh so we don't have any
potential territorial dispute. We have a
government. I believe we have built one
of the most exciting types of governance
systems. That was really result of me
looking for many years how governance
can be structured in order to to merge
all the existing constitutions and their
best ideas with the best technologies
that are currently available through
blockchain. And we have capacity to
enter into relation with other states.
I've been on multiple official state
visits including for example El
Salvador. uh but we have seen a backlash
from Croatia where they had not
>> [snorts]
>> um saved money on efforts leading to
unrecognition of Liberland. So while
Liberland for example in El Salvador
financed the hospital as part of our
recognition process and as part of my
official visit to the country they
actually managed to finance another
school. So from from our side, we are
incentivizing Croatia to do humanitarian
projects abroad as part of the the
larger recognition run for for
Liberland, which is kind of fun. Uh and
and that's right now we're what what we
are doing is that we are doing kind of a
silent diplomacy. We're working with the
states, but we are not publishing our
diplomatic successes. Liberalent is 7
square kilometers
uh which is three times bigger than
Monaco. You've got now 1,300 citizens
functioning representation in more than
90 countries around the world. If you go
almost everywhere in any civilized part
of the world, you can always find a
reliable liberal lender you can rely on.
And there are around 15 physical offices
uh right now where you can visit. We
have a really nice one in Washington DC.
I think better than most of regular
European embassies. And we've got now
800,000 people that signed up for
citizenship, which is a fairly decent
nation. So let me explain you a little
bit more about the governance itself and
uh I really I really believe we did a
good job uh when it comes to structuring
the the best elements of meritocracy and
this is a true meritocracy meaning
basically it's a shareholding structure
of Liberland. All new taxpayers of
Liberland have the right to receive
merits in exchange for their
contribution. There are only voluntary
taxes in Liberland. I believe it's a
decent system. Uh I I really like Herman
Hanzul that the taxes are the price to
pay uh for not being able to build
civilized society. In in Liberland we
are trying to build a civilized society
uh so people don't have to pay taxes.
They're always buying more into the
country into the ownership and the merit
merits are voting the people in
Congress. So there is this board of
directors that gets to be created. We're
also republic because we don't want to
organize things like healthcare, um
things like education. We want our
government to strictly focus on
security, justice, and diplomacy. We're
also de uh democracy because we
basically allow majority of citizens to
veto any rule or law they don't like. We
don't give them the chance to make new
rules or to nominate new people to
power. And we have already seen quite
interesting challenges uh with that
regard. The democracy I would say is
very malicious element uh in general and
the founding fathers of United States
have actually recognized it very well. U
so I'm trying to uh keep that in check
but at the same time give democracy a
voice to be able to really remove
anything that they don't like and it
works very well in Switzerland. Whoever
you are from Switzerland, you know that
this is an element that really works.
And there is a monarchical element to
Liberland because all the biggest
contributors to Liberland actually
become members of Senate. There is 100
seats in Senate. It's this oligarchical
body of people that really managed to
support Liberland quite a bit. The other
option of getting into Senate is getting
Liberal recognized by some sovereign
country. So there are two ways how to
how to become senators and it's all
powered on blockchain. So it's all
basically trustless auditable code uh
that I believe we are just going through
the last security audit of this whole
system uh before we'll be officially
releasing it and voting for the
constitution of liberal. So you can
actually check it
blockchain.liberland.org. Uh there is
not just governance. We also register
companies on our blockchain. Uh we
register any kind of other property.
There this possibility to create smart
contracts. Liberal has become EVM
compatible. That means you can run any
kind of smart contract like you can run
on Ethereum. Uh which I believe will be
very useful in the in the near future.
Uh you can you know for example run
another version of unis swap or you can
launch stable coins that are privacy
oriented. All these things are some of
the projects that are taking off on
Liberland blockchain right now. And we
have very famous people in Congress
already. I believe it's an interesting
accomplishment that Liberland's prime
minister is the wealthiest prime
minister ever elected in in any uh uh
any country on the world. And we have
people like Britannic Kaiser, very
famous whistleblower, Navidit Sabarian,
our minister of finance, Michael who is
here with me for example, Tarik Kabasi,
famous diplomat uh from UK. So we've got
a very strong body in Congress
and uh then there is the role of Supreme
Court making sure that again liberal
only stays a republic. It doesn't start
uh doing many other things which it
shouldn't. And uh and what is what is
one of the key things which I want to
personally bring uh to the table and
this is a part of the discussion for
example that I have with professor
Kinsula is that liberal is organizing
security justice and diplomacy but is
thinking about how to best introduce
competition into these three areas as
well. So for security we have Uberiz
security. We allow almost anybody
basically easily to join and allow to
help with security incidents. We use the
same app also to run public tenders. So
if you jump to app.lan.org you can
easily download the mobile application.
Try it. There is actually security
incident for this conference. You can
get the discount on e- residency if you
take part of that security incident.
Just try it. Then for justice we want to
organize a market of judges and really
introduce some of the elements of
international arbitrage which I believe
will be quite important uh for for the
for making liberal and justice system
very competitive with other places. We
just want to innovate in that area as
well. um again allow competition between
the judges so that the state does have
some control who can be and who cannot
be judge but in general the entry level
for that uh will be very easy and it
shouldn't be a problem and what we are
now working on as well and I believe it
will also help us quite a bit that it's
not just ministry of foreign affairs
that delegates new ambassadors that
actually every single embassy will be a
separate dowo that will be elected again
my married holders so there will be In
Congress, we have elections every 3
months. And what we're planning to do
for embassies that we will have yearly
elections of ambassadors. So there will
be competition. People will be
presenting their plans for their
countries. So that the representatives
are not sleeping. They always have
something to debate what could be done
uh to support Liberal from any country
around the world.
Okay. Democratic. mentioned that
blockchain is very important because
what it actually does we are able to
remove 90% of bureaucracy from a nation
state that itself should release at
least five I would say even 10% of
economic growth if you make all the
transactions trustless seamless
happening in 1 second whatever we are
doing however we are interacting with
the state this should be a major boost
so voluntary tax is a major boost and
reducing bureaucracy to complete minimum
I believe that functioning society a
free society should grow at the rate of
20% a year which with our system is
fully achievable.
So I would like to invite you to join us
in Liberland. There is a great
opportunity to jump on bus on Monday
morning. Uh you can join us for the
longevity conference. We've got BBC
following us this time. Uh so 3rd and
4th of November. Uh we are going to host
quite a few important names and uh it
will be more of a like relaxing family
size event. uh but with the with the
famous BBC reporters following us and
then on 5th there is a boat ride to
liberal land so quite if you're free in
next couple of days we're more than
happy uh to host you can also visit the
freedom project uh which is being
developed on Liberty Island now as we
speak we finally have uh hot water there
as well uh so we're becoming more and
more civilized despite still some
serious obstacles from Croatia but I'm
very grateful that the situation the
security situation with Croatia has
improved quite a bit uh in especially in
last nine months and we are working on
making sure that that liberal land is
more accepted in the whole region. So
we're launching multiple projects that
we are planning to tokenize on our
blockchain and on other blockchains
actually uh to grow the economy the
regional economy uh fix the local ports
make commercial centers and then ARC in
ARC where where there is longevity event
will be we're launching another
development uh plan uh with the
longevity clinic and also with the spa.
So you can you can actually see all
these plans uh when you when you join us
you can look into it. Maybe you you are
we would be interested to be part of
that project as well. And yet another
important invitation again back to
Prague if you like uh the the city just
before Christmas the 19th of December
we're hosting Herman Han Herman Stefan
Kinsella Alexandra Fusilo and we'll be
discussing these elements of liberal
constitution and its final wording. We
are not rushing with with voting on the
constitution. We want really want to
have a proper debate and join it with a
nice gala dinner here in Prague on 19th
of December. So that's it from me. Thank
you very much for hosting Liberland. I'm
very grateful for all these events.
[applause]